# This is a list of files that are (or might be) externally referenced.
# This list is automatically checked, and if a file goes missing an error will be raised!
# The first word is an explicit file path to check existence of, and the remainder is a comment/description.
# This is not sophisticated enough to check the _usage_ of any files.

dashboard/deploy_dashboard_gcloud referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/tools/keygen.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/tools/pubber.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/tools/registrar.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/tools/validator.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/tools/sequencer.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/sequences/readme.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/message_walk.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/cloud/gcp/readme.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/site_model.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/metadata.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/tools/validator.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/connecting.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/gateway.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/messages/state.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/messages/config.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
docs/specs/sequences/writeback.md referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
gencode/docs/state.html referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation
gencode/docs/metadata.html referenced in MSI learning materials and documentation